This is the contribs dir for SLURM.  

SOURCE DISTRIBUTION HIERARCHY
-----------------------------

Subdirectories contain the source-code for the various contributations for
SLURM as their documentation. A quick description of the subdirectories
of the SLURM contribs distribution follows:

  perlapi/           [ Perl API to SLURM source ]
     API to SLURM using perl.  Making available all SLURM command that exist
     in the SLURM proper API.

  time_login.c       [ C program ]
     This program will report how long a pseudo-login will take for specific
     users or all users on the system. Users identified by this program 
     will not have their environment properly set for jobs submitted through
     Moab. Build with "make -f /dev/null time_login" and execute as user root. 

  torque/            [ Wrapper Scripts for Torque migration to SLURM ]
     Helpful scripts to make transition to SLURM easier from PBS or Torque.  
     These scripts are easily updatable if there is functionality missing.

  make.slurm.patch   [ Patch to "make" command for parallel build ]
     This patch will use SLURM to launch tasks across a job's current resource
     allocation. Depending upon the size of modules to be compiled, this may
     or may not improve performance. If most modules are thousands of lines
     long, the use of additional resources should more than compensate for the
     overhead of SLURM's task launch. Use with make's "-j" option within an
     existing SLURM allocation. Outside of a SLURM allocation, make's behavior
     will be unchanged. Designed for GNU make-3.81.

  mpich1.slurm.patch [ Patch to mpich1/p4 library for SLURM job task launch ]
     For SLURM based job initiations (from srun command), get the parameters 
     from environment variables as needed. This allows for a truly parallel 
     job launch using the existing "execer" mode of operation with slight 
     modification.  
 
 ptrace.patch       [ Linux Kernel patch required to for TotalView use ]
     1. gdb and other tools cannot attach to a stopped process. The wait that 
     follows the PTRACE_ATTACH will block indefinitely.
     2. It is not possible to use PTRACE_DETACH to leave a process stopped, 
     because ptrace ignores SIGSTOPs sent by the tracing process.
 
